[DOC] Restructure user documentation (#945)
saros-project/saros: docs/documentation/getting-started.md

title: Getting Started
---

Here you will find a guide **on how to set up Saros**.

> If you still need to installed Saros look into our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you still need to installed Saros, you can have look at our
```

concerning visualizations indicating the participant's actions.

Saros also provides **instant chat messaging** to
accompany your sessions.
Whenever you begin a Saros session, a **chat session** is also
automatically started.

If you want to configure Saros, open the `Saros` entry in the menu bar
and click on `Preferences`.

{% endcapture %}
{% capture intellij %}

Most interactions with the Saros session logic (like starting or ending a session) can be done through the Saros tool window.
This window is attached to the bottom right of the IDE by default.
It is marked with the title "Saros" and the Saros icon (![saros icon](images/icons-i/saros.png)).
All actions described in the following sections take place in this tool window.

{% endcapture %}
{% include ide-tabs.html eclipse=eclipse intellij=intellij %}

## Start a Session

In the following we show you how to set up Saros to start your first session.

### Step 1: Creating an XMPP Account

You first need an **XMPP account** to use Saros.

* You can **create a new account**:
  * On our XMPP server using our **[signup page](https://saros-con.imp.fu-berlin.de:5280/register/new)**

>         * Note: Due to abuse by spammers, we had to disable in-band registration and from within Saros.

Reviewer: Wrong offset causes this entry to be displayed as part of previous bullet point.
```suggestion
     * Note: Due to abuse by spammers, we had to disable in-band registration and from within Saros.
```

Whenever you begin a Saros session, a **chat session** is also
automatically started.

If you want to configure Saros, open the `Saros` entry in the menu bar
and click on `Preferences`.

{% endcapture %}
{% capture intellij %}

> Most interactions with the Saros session logic (like starting or ending a session) can be done through the Saros tool window.

Reviewer: I still think there should be a note that Saros/I is currently still an alpha release and has specific restrictions/missing features. Linking to the latest release notes should be good enough instead of listing everything on this page.

This window is attached to the bottom right of the IDE by default.
It is marked with the title "Saros" and the Saros icon (![saros icon](images/icons-i/saros.png)).
All actions described in the following sections take place in this tool window.

{% endcapture %}
{% include ide-tabs.html eclipse=eclipse intellij=intellij %}

## Start a Session

In the following we show you how to set up Saros to start your first session.

### Step 1: Creating an XMPP Account

You first need an **XMPP account** to use Saros.

> 1.  You can **create a new account**:
>   * On our XMPP server using our **[signup page](https://saros-con.imp.fu-berlin.de:5280/register/new)**
>         * Note: Due to abuse by spammers, we had to disable in-band registration and from within Saros.
>   * On other XMPP servers as [jabber.org](https://www.jabber.org/) ([register.jabber.org](https://register.jabber.org/)).
> 2.  You can **use an existing account**
> 3.  You [setup your own XMPP server](setup-xmpp.md).

Reviewer: This should be a list instead of an enumeration.
```suggestion
*  You can **create a new account**:
  * On our XMPP server using our **[signup page](https://saros-con.imp.fu-berlin.de:5280/register/new)**
        * Note: Due to abuse by spammers, we had to disable in-band registration and from within Saros.
  * On other XMPP servers as [jabber.org](https://www.jabber.org/) ([register.jabber.org](https://register.jabber.org/)).
*  You can **use an existing account**
*  You [setup your own XMPP server](setup-xmpp.md).
```

* Please note that your performance may vary depending on the XMPP server settings, such as bandwidth restrictions or feature supports.
* It is recommended to **use the same XMPP server** for all users
which participate in a Saros session. Our tests have shown
that many public XMPP servers use outdated software
and certificates. Thus in many cases communication between federated
servers will fail.

> ### Step 2: Adding Account and Connecting

Reviewer: A section on modifying/deleting added XMPP accounts (and the lack of the feature for Saros/I) is missing.

  - If no server is supposed to be specified, just leave the field empty.
  - If a server is specified, a port has to be specified as well.

- Click the "Connect" button (![connect icon](images/icons/connect.png)).
- Choose the account you would like to connect to from the pop-up menu.
{% endcapture %}
{% include ide-tabs.html eclipse=eclipse intellij=intellij %}

### Step 3: Adding Contacts

{% capture eclipse %}
To add a contact to your list you need to **know his/her XMPP ID**.

**After entering your partner's XMPP ID**, a message will be sent to
your contact.

> Once s/he accepts your request you will be able to see his/her **online

Reviewer: I would generally use singular they in such cases. But this is a matter of taste.
```suggestion
Once they accept your request, you will be able to see their **online
```

Once the other user has accepted your contact request, they will request you adding them as a contact as well.
This will automatically be displayed by the plugin as a dialog when you are connected to the account.

{% endcapture %}
{% include ide-tabs.html eclipse=eclipse intellij=intellij %}

### Step 4: Starting and Joining Sessions

You can work together with your contacts by either **starting your own
session** or by **being invited to one**.

When **starting** a session, **Saros will copy the project** to the

> computer of your invited contacts.

Reviewer: Simplification as we will not always "copy" the project to the other computer. Our goal is to create the same state on both sides, so we only transfer the needed resources.

Once the other user has accepted your contact request, they will request you adding them as a contact as well.
This will automatically be displayed by the plugin as a dialog when you are connected to the account.

{% endcapture %}
{% include ide-tabs.html eclipse=eclipse intellij=intellij %}

### Step 4: Starting and Joining Sessions

You can work together with your contacts by either **starting your own
session** or by **being invited to one**.

When **starting** a session, **Saros will produce the same project state** 
in the Saros instances of your invited contacts (with synchronizing files, copying missing files or creating missing directories).

> #### Start a Session ([host](#the-host))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Start a Session ([Host](#the-host))
```
